# TfL Live Road Status App!This document contains instructions and functional description of the above app. **TfL Live Road Status** can be used by anyone to check the live status of any road within the control of Transport for London. This document explains different files, UI components and architecture framework used to create the app before finally discussing about further improvements which can be done to this app.## BriefThe app takes input in the form of a 'Road Name' from the user and make API call to the Transport for London provided REST API endpoints to get **Live** information about the roads. It is based on **MVVM (Model View ViewModel)** architecture and **uses** Android JetPack library features such as **ViewModel** and **LiveData**.Please note that previously a developer needed to register with TfL and have the developer key and app key assigned to them, a process which recently seem to have changed, the API calls can be made without any of these keys now.When a valid Road Name is entered by the user, the app is able to display a few bits of important information about that road such as:1) Display name2) Status (Severity of current status of that road, delays etc)3) Status Severity Description which provides more information about the status above## Files and FoldersThis project contains a list of useful files and some are listed below:* Read Me - Explains about the project i.e. this file you are reading* .gitignore - List of files to be ignored when uploading your project to GitHub from Android Studio* buil.gradle - Gradle file which helps build your project and important dependencies* app (folder) - All source files are within the app>src>(package name)>tflroadstatus folder* LICENSE - details about the license for this app## LicenseDistributed under the MIT License. See  `LICENSE.txt`  for more information.## Getting StartedDownload the code on your computer and follow the instructions as [in this article](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/how-to-clone-android-project-from-github-in-android-studio/)Once you have successfully created a project with the source files here, you can goto `Rebuild project` option under  `Build` tab. Then you can use an emulator or a physical Android device to run the app!## The UIThe UI of the app consist of a textfield and a button underneath it. Underneath the button, the rest of the space is given to the results to be shown.## FunctionalityThe text field will only accept letters and numbers and will display **error** if any other character is entered in it. Once the road name is entered, the user should press the button **Check Status**. This invokes a call to a couroutine where data is fetched from the TfL server. Upon receipt of the data, the details of the road are displayed on the screen below the **Check Status** Button## Further improvementsThe developer would like to make further improvements to this codebase by doing the following:- Display the informative error returned by the TfL server instead of showing the **Exception** text thrown by the RetroFit library, used to make the HTTP calls as it is not useful the end user to decipher technical details which makes more sense to the developer.- Move from **View Binding** technique to **Data binding** to link View and Data in one go instead of writing code to observe data changes and make UI changes. Linking them together will remove this need to manually have to write code to update the UI.- Write **Instrumentation tests** to test the UI and **Unit test** to individually test the code and functions- Improve **accessibility** features by choosing appropriate Themes for both **Light and Dark Theme Settings**- Allow **Landscape** orientation as currently it is locked to **Portrait** mode to avoid layout issues. 